---
layout: api-docs
page_title: "API Documentation"
seo_title: ""
description: ""
in-page-nav: true
sidebar-links: 
  - name: API Documentation
    url: /api-documentation.html
    
    children:
    - name: Authorization
      url: /authorization
      
    - name: Attestation & Attribution
      url: /attestation-attribution

    - name: Export Data
      url: /export-data

    - name: Postman Collection
      url: /postman-collection

---

# {{ page.page_title }}

Welcome to the Data at the Point of Care (DPC) pilot API program! This documentation covers using the API in the sandbox environment with synthetic data.

## Getting started

<ol class="usa-process-list margin-top-1 docs-process-list">
  <li class="usa-process-list__item">
    <p class="usa-process-list__heading">Learn about DPC</p>
    <p>
    Explore the documentation and sample files.
    </p>
  </li>
  <li class="usa-process-list__item">
    <p class="usa-process-list__heading">Use the sandbox</p>
    <p>
     The <a href="https://sandbox.dpc.cms.gov/users/sign_in">sandbox</a> environment allows anyone to try the API and download test claims data. You'll need to <a href="{{ '/api-documentation#upload-synthetic-data' | relative_url }}">upload sythetic data. </a>
    </p>
    <a href="https://sandbox.dpc.cms.gov/users/sign_in"
      class="usa-button usa-button--accent-warm bg-secondary margin-top-1"
      type="button"
      data-tealium="main-nav">
      Visit the Sandbox {% include sprite.html icon="launch" size="2" %}
    </a>
  </li>
  <li class="usa-process-list__item docs-final-item">
    <p class="usa-process-list__heading">Get production access</p>
    <div class="usa-alert usa-alert--warning usa-alert--no-icon">
      <div class="usa-alert__body">
        <p class="usa-alert__text">Onboarding applications are paused. Join the Google Group to stay informed on updates.</p>
      </div>
    </div>

  </li>
</ol>

## Upload synthetic data 

Retreive synthetic data from DPC’s public [GitHub repository](https://github.com/CMSgov/dpc-app/tree/main/src/main/resources). 

### Sample Data

The provided sample data was generated using the excellent [Synthea](https://synthea.mitre.org) tool with some specific modifications that are required by the DPC project.

Interesting files in this directory include:

- [provider_bundle.json](./provider_bundle.json): A `Bundle` of `Practitioner` resources which have been generated by Synthea and modified to allow matching with the sample `Patient` resources.
Details on the data modifications are given [here](#practitioners).
- [patient_bundle.json](./patient_bundle.json) A `Bundle` of `Patient` resources which have been generated by Synthea and modified to match resources in the BlueButton backend (local development only).
Details on the data modifications are given [here](#patients).
  - [patient_bundle-dpr.json](./patient_bundle-dpr.json) Like `patient_bundle.json`, but with IDs matching the BlueButton sandbox environment. This is the file to use when testing against any Data at the Point of Care environment.
- [test_associations.csv](./test_associations.csv): A mapping of `Practitioner` resources to `Patient` resources (in a local environment only), which can be used to generate Patient rosters.
Sample code for generating the corresponding `Group` resources is provided [here](https://github.com/CMSgov/dpc-app/blob/main/dpc-attribution/src/test/java/gov/cms/dpc/attribution/scripts/GenerateRosters.java).
  - [test_associations-dpr.csv](./test_associations-dpr.csv): Like `test_associations.csv`, but with IDs matching the BlueButton sandbox environment. This is the file to use when testing against any Data at the Point of Care environment.
- [organization_bundle.json](./organization_bundle.json): A `Bundle` of 2 `Organization` resources.
These can be used for bootstrapping a local development environment in which no Organizations have been registered yet.
- [organization.tmpl.json](./organization.tmpl.json): The FHIR template used by DPC for registering organizations.

#### Data Modifications 

#### Practitioners

- Removed fullURL
- Manually modified IDs to match [test_associations](./test_associations.csv).

#### Patients

- Added MBIs to match [test_associations](./test_associations.csv).
- Normalized some of the language codes to ensure that they match the corresponding FHIR value sets/

#### Organizations

- Modified bundle to be a batch bundle, rather than a search
- Manually created (and linked) test FHIR endpoints
- Added missing (and required) address type/use fields

#### Synthea citation

>Jason Walonoski, Mark Kramer, Joseph Nichols, Andre Quina, Chris Moesel, Dylan Hall, Carlton Duffett, Kudakwashe Dube, Thomas Gallagher, Scott McLachlan, Synthea: An approach, method, and software mechanism for generating synthetic patients and the synthetic electronic health care record, Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, Volume 25, Issue 3, March 2018, Pages 230–238, https://doi.org/10.1093/jamia/ocx079

### Reference the following guides to get started:

- [DPC Documentation](https://dpc.cms.gov/docsV1)
- [HL7 FHIR Standards](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/)